1.[20 points] Study the diagram in shown in pets_diagram.png.

Then, read each of the nine provided Java files in src. Write top-of-file Javadocs for each of those files. Writing Javadocs for all the individual methods is not required for this exam.

- [x] Write top-of-file Javadocs for each of those files
- [x] Writing Javadocs for all the individual methods is not required for this exam.

2.[20 points] Find up to FIVE "bugs" total in these four files:
   - AbstractPet.java (not counted: the compareTo method returns 0)
   - Dog.java
   - BirdTest.java
   - PetLastVetVisitComparator
   There may be more than five bugs, but you should report just five.
   Observing that some code is missing or "stubbed out" does not count!
   Multiple occurrences (or extremely similar bugs) DO NOT COUNT! IntelliJ's
   yellow warnings also do not count. Insert extra lines immediately above
   or below each bug to clearly mark and describe the issue, like this EXAMPLE:

   //BUG (Example)
   //Issue: Method is apt to divide by zero, but there is no try block [1 pt]
   //Approach: Brief summary of proposed fix, for partial credit [+1 pt]
   //Solution: Provide the corrected code for full credit [+1 pt]
   If you provide corrected code, comment out the buggy code (don't delete it).

- [x] AbstractPet.java
	- [x] compareTo
- [x] Dog.java
	- [x] weight is double
	- [x] forget to super
- [x] BirdTest.java
	- [x] unit version
- [x] PetLastVetVisitComparator
	- [x] Comparator

2. [20 points] Implement the following missing or stubbed out code:
    a. The compareTo method in AbstractPet.java (heavier pets are "greater")
    b. All missing/unfinished methods in AbstractPet.java, INCLUDING toString.
    c. Implement 2 other ways to sort pets without modifying Pet, AbstractPet,
       or individual pet classes: one based on the pet's last visit to the Vet,
       and one based on their name; you should illustrate TWO DIFFERENT ways
       to use Comparator-style comparisons for uses with Collections.sort.
    d. Tests (TWO assertions for each method) for AbstractPet (only)

- [x] a.AbstractPet.java compareTo
- [x] b.All missing/unfinished methods in AbstractPet.java
- [x] c.Collections.sort
- [x] d.test

3. [22 points] Add an equals method (and hashCode method) to AbstractPet. It's unnecessary
   for every instance variable to be equal. If the pet's name, owner, color, weight,
   and age are equal, you might assume that they are equal. It is acceptable to use
   getClass() in this special sort of situation, because you might not want to conclude
   that a Dog and a Cat with the same name, owner, etc. are equal. (We try to avoid
   using getClass when instanceof would suffice, otherwise.)

- [x] equals method
- [x] hashCode method
