Two bugs:
- Barbara Liskov in 1968 first women in the United States to earn a **Ph.D. in Computer Science**, and later a **professor at MIT**.

### MVC
- Q: Why need mvc?
- A: Use MVC as a system design pattern, to reduce the code complexity by separate the program into three parts.

- Model: 
	- back-end design
	- does not care about which functionality is used when, how results are shown to the user
- View: 
	- Display to the user
	- does not care how the results were produced, when to respond to user action
- Controller: 
	- Accepts user input
	- Translates user actions into operation

controller -> model -> view

 _well-designed_ system

**Cohesion** 
- each part does one specific job well.
- means how closely related and focused the responsibilities of a single component are.(1 well-defined purpose isolation to a few part protects)
**Low Coupling**:
- measures how _dependent_ one module is on another.
- eg: tire dim to wheel dim

SOLID:
- Solid
- Open
- **L**iskov's substitution principle
- **I**nterface segregation: No client should be forced to depends on methods it does not use.
    Effect: a client is only offered functionality that is useful. If a client needs to use only part of an existing interface, this interface should be decomposed into smaller ones.
- **D**ependency


### Java GUI Frameworks
| Library                       | Description                                              | Example Use                               |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| AWT (Abstract Window Toolkit) | The oldest GUI library (low-level).                      | Basic windows, buttons.                   |
| **Swing**                     | Built on AWT, easier and more powerful.                  | Standard desktop apps.                    |
| JavaFX                        | Modern GUI framework with better visuals and animations. | Modern apps with charts, CSS, media, etc. |

The model's client is the controller
The view act as a client only indirectly, through the controller

**asynchronous**
Two primary goals of MVC architecture are: (1) to ensure that each element of the software solution serves a single purpose and (2) that unnecessary dependencies between elements are minimized.